# LibreMail

> **Under Active Development**
>
> [`Sync`](sync) is ready to use! [`Webmail`](webmail) is about 90% done!

This project consists of three parts:

1. [IMAP to SQL Syncing Engine](#1-imap-to-sql-syncing-engine)
2. [JavaScript-free HTML Email Client](#2-javascript-free-html-email-client)
3. Kanban-style Email Client

All of which are licensed under the GNU GPLv3. The goal of this project is to
provide a fully free, modern, and extremely usable email client as well as an
easy to use tool for storing your remote email in a local SQL database.

Additionally, I set out to create a Kanban-style email client to interact with
your email in a much more intuitive, card-based interface. Currently, part 1 is
finished and part 2 has started. Read below for more information about each
application.

### 1. IMAP to SQL Syncing Engine

![Ready](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-ready-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)

Both email clients in this project utilize the syncing engine provided in the
[`sync`](sync) app. This application is designed to continually download emails
from any number of IMAP servers and accounts. The data is saved in the format
outlined in [`DATA_FORMAT.md`](docs/DATA_FORMAT.md).

Please see the `sync` directory for full documentation on setting up the sync
engine; i.e. connecting accounts, populating test data, and the different ways
with which you can run the application in the background (supervisor, cron,
etc).

### 2. JavaScript-free HTML Email Client

![Very Soon](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-very%20soon-green.svg?style=flat-square)

One of the primary goals of this project is to create a web-based email client
that is completely free of JavaScript or browser code. Modern web development
has fallen into a pattern of using JavaScript to do everything. It can be very
advantageous, from a security and privacy perspective, to disable JavaScript for
any email web applications. Having a mail client that works without JavaScript
can be a huge blessing!

It's recommended and encouraged to disable JavaScript when using LibreMail. This
can avoid a very large class of security vulnerabilities. While most problems
are encountered upon clicking external links or downloading and opening files,
disabling JavaScript for LibreMail can prevent malicious activity from other
websites you have open, browser extensions, and more.

Web applications and pages can not only function, but _thrive_ in a
JavaScript-free environment. The [`webmail`](webmail) application in this
project provides a rich GMail-style interface for interacting with the local
email saved in a SQL database from the [`sync`](sync) app (this is a
pre-requisite). It's mobile-friendly, extremely light-weight, and provides
almost full parity to GMail's email client.

### 3. Kanban-style Email Client

![Not Started](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-not%20started-lightgrey.svg?style=flat-square)

The final goal of LibreMail is to create a modern and safe email client that
works _with_ and _for_ the user, not against them. The Kanban client is meant to
help organize and manage email for anyone who thinks of email as a "todo".
